cloud: add migration docs for TiDB Cloud Essential (#21849)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/migrate-from-mysql-using-data-migration-essential.md

- Amazon Aurora MySQL writer instances support both existing data and incremental data migration. Amazon Aurora MySQL reader instances only support existing data migration and do not support incremental data migration.

### Maximum number of migration jobs

You can create up to 100 migration jobs for each organization. To create more migration jobs, you need to [file a support ticket](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).

### Filtered out and deleted databases

- The system databases will be filtered out and not migrated to {{{ .essential }}} even if you select all of the databases to migrate. That is, `mysql`, `information_schema`, `performance_schema`, and `sys` will not be migrated using this feature.

- When you delete a cluster in TiDB Cloud, all migration jobs in that cluster are automatically deleted and not recoverable.

### Limitations of Alibaba Cloud RDS

When using Alibaba Cloud RDS as a data source, every table must have an explicit primary key. For tables without one, RDS appends a hidden PK to the binlog, which leads to a schema mismatch with the source table and causes the migration to fail.

### Limitations of Alibaba Cloud PolarDB-X

> During full data migration, PolarDB-X schemas may contain incompatible keywords that cause import to fail. This issue can be mitigated by pre-creating the target tables in the downstream database before initiating the migration process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During full data migration, PolarDB-X schemas might contain keywords that are incompatible with the downstream database, causing the import to fail. 

To prevent this, create the target tables in the downstream database before starting the migration process.
```

- During incremental replication (migrating ongoing changes to your cluster), if the migration job recovers from an abrupt error, it might open the safe mode for 60 seconds. During the safe mode, `INSERT` statements are migrated as `REPLACE`, `UPDATE` statements as `DELETE` and `REPLACE`, and then these transactions are migrated to the target TiDB Cloud cluster to ensure that all the data during the abrupt error has been migrated smoothly to the target TiDB Cloud cluster. In this scenario, for MySQL source tables without primary keys or non-null unique indexes, some data might be duplicated in the target TiDB Cloud cluster because the data might be inserted repeatedly into the target TiDB Cloud cluster.

- In the following scenarios, if the migration job takes longer than 24 hours, do not purge binary logs in the source database. This allows Data Migration to get consecutive binary logs for incremental replication:

    - During the existing data migration.
    - After the existing data migration is completed and when incremental data migration is started for the first time, the latency is not 0 ms.

## Prerequisites

> Before migrating, check whether your data source is supported, enable binary logging in your MySQL-compatible database, ensure network connectivity, and grant required privileges for both the source database and the target TiDB Cloud cluster database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before migrating, you need to:

- Check whether your data source is supported
- Enable binary logging in your MySQL-compatible database
- Ensure network connectivity
- Grant required privileges for both the source database and the target TiDB Cloud cluster database
```

</details>

### Ensure network connectivity

Before creating a migration job, you need to plan and set up proper network connectivity between your source MySQL instance, the TiDB Cloud Data Migration (DM) service, and your target {{{ .essential }}} cluster.

The available connection methods are as follows:

| Connection method | Availability | Recommended for |
|:---------------------|:-------------|:----------------|
| Public endpoints or IP addresses | All cloud providers supported by TiDB Cloud | Quick proof-of-concept migrations, testing, or when private connectivity is unavailable |
| Private links or private endpoints | AWS and Azure only | Production workloads without exposing data to the public internet |

Choose a connection method that best fits your cloud provider, network topology, and security requirements, and then follow the setup instructions for that method.

#### End-to-end encryption over TLS/SSL

Regardless of the connection method, it is strongly recommended to use TLS/SSL for end-to-end encryption. While private endpoints and VPC peering secure the network path, TLS/SSL secures the data itself and helps meet compliance requirements.

<details>

> <summary> Download and store the cloud provider's certificates for TLS/SSL encrypted connections </summary>

Reviewer: Do we need to add Alibaba Cloud?

    > **Tip:**
    >
    > You can use the combo box in the upper-left corner to switch between organizations, projects, and clusters.

2. Click the name of your target cluster to go to its overview page, and then click **Data** > **Migration** in the left navigation pane.

3. On the **Data Migration** page, click **Create Migration Job** in the upper-right corner. The **Create Migration Job** page is displayed.

## Step 2: Configure the source and target connections

On the **Create Migration Job** page, configure the source and target connections.

1. Enter a job name, which must start with a letter and must be less than 60 characters. Letters (A-Z, a-z), numbers (0-9), underscores (_), and hyphens (-) are acceptable.

2. Fill in the source connection profile.

    - **Data source**: the data source type.
    - **Connectivity method**: select a connection method for your data source based on your security requirements and cloud provider:
        - **Public IP**: available for all cloud providers (recommended for testing and proof-of-concept migrations).

>         - **Private Link**: available for AWS and Alibaba Cloud only (recommended for production workloads requiring private connectivity).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Data source**: the data source type.
 
    - **Connectivity method**: select a connection method for your data source based on your security requirements and cloud provider:

        - **Public IP**: available for all cloud providers (recommended for testing and proof-of-concept migrations).
        - **Private Link**: available for AWS and Alibaba Cloud only (recommended for production workloads requiring private connectivity).

```

---

# Migrate MySQL-Compatible Databases to {{{ .essential }}} Using Data Migration

This document guides you through migrating your MySQL databases from Amazon Aurora MySQL, Amazon RDS, Azure Database for MySQL - Flexible Server, Google Cloud SQL for MySQL, or self-managed MySQL instances to {{{ .essential }}} using the Data Migration feature in the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/).

This feature enables you to migrate your existing MySQL data and continuously replicate ongoing changes (binlog) from your MySQL-compatible source databases directly to {{{ .essential }}}, maintaining data consistency whether in the same region or across different regions. The streamlined process eliminates the need for separate dump and load operations, reducing downtime and simplifying your migration from MySQL to a more scalable platform.

If you only want to replicate ongoing binlog changes from your MySQL-compatible database to {{{ .essential }}}, see [Migrate Incremental Data from MySQL-Compatible Databases to {{{ .essential }}} Using Data Migration](/tidb-cloud/migrate-incremental-data-from-mysql-using-data-migration-essential.md).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

> **Note**
>
> Currently, this feature is in public preview.
 
```

This document guides you through migrating your MySQL databases from Amazon Aurora MySQL, Amazon RDS, Azure Database for MySQL - Flexible Server, Google Cloud SQL for MySQL, or self-managed MySQL instances to {{{ .essential }}} using the Data Migration feature in the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/).

This feature enables you to migrate your existing MySQL data and continuously replicate ongoing changes (binlog) from your MySQL-compatible source databases directly to {{{ .essential }}}, maintaining data consistency whether in the same region or across different regions. The streamlined process eliminates the need for separate dump and load operations, reducing downtime and simplifying your migration from MySQL to a more scalable platform.

If you only want to replicate ongoing binlog changes from your MySQL-compatible database to {{{ .essential }}}, see [Migrate Incremental Data from MySQL-Compatible Databases to {{{ .essential }}} Using Data Migration](/tidb-cloud/migrate-incremental-data-from-mysql-using-data-migration-essential.md).

> **Note:**
>
> Currently, this feature is in public preview.
 
## Limitations

### Availability

> - If you don't see the [Data Migration](/tidb-cloud/migrate-from-mysql-using-data-migration.md#step-1-go-to-the-data-migration-page) entry for your {{{ .essential }}} cluster in the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/), the feature might not be available in your region. To request support for your region, contact [TiDB Cloud Support](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).

Reviewer 2: public beta 之后，前端还有这个某些 region 看不见的能力？

- Amazon Aurora MySQL writer instances support both existing data and incremental data migration. Amazon Aurora MySQL reader instances only support existing data migration and do not support incremental data migration.

### Maximum number of migration jobs

You can create up to 100 migration jobs for each organization. To create more migration jobs, you need to [file a support ticket](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).

### Filtered out and deleted databases

- The system databases will be filtered out and not migrated to {{{ .essential }}} even if you select all of the databases to migrate. That is, `mysql`, `information_schema`, `performance_schema`, and `sys` will not be migrated using this feature.

> - When you delete a cluster in TiDB Cloud, all migration jobs in that cluster are automatically deleted and not recoverable.

Reviewer 2: 能删？

### Limitations of Alibaba Cloud PolarDB-X

During full data migration, PolarDB-X schemas might contain keywords that are incompatible with the downstream database, causing the import to fail. 

To prevent this, create the target tables in the downstream database before starting the migration process.

### Limitations of existing data migration

- During existing data migration, if the target database already contains the table to be migrated and there are duplicate keys, the rows with duplicate keys will be replaced.

- Only logical mode is supported for {{{ .essential }}} now.

### Limitations of incremental data migration

- During incremental data migration, if the table to be migrated already exists in the target database with duplicate keys, an error is reported and the migration is interrupted. In this situation, you need to verify that the MySQL source data is accurate. If it is, click the **Restart** button of the migration job, and the migration job will replace the conflicting records in the target cluster with the MySQL source records.

> - During incremental replication (migrating ongoing changes to your cluster), if the migration job recovers from an abrupt error, it might open the safe mode for 60 seconds. During the safe mode, `INSERT` statements are migrated as `REPLACE`, `UPDATE` statements as `DELETE` and `REPLACE`, and then these transactions are migrated to the target TiDB Cloud cluster to ensure that all the data during the abrupt error has been migrated smoothly to the target TiDB Cloud cluster. In this scenario, for MySQL source tables without primary keys or non-null unique indexes, some data might be duplicated in the target TiDB Cloud cluster because the data might be inserted repeatedly into the target TiDB Cloud cluster.

Author: 没有区别吧

    - Storage Safeguard: Monitor Storage Usage closely. Note that RDS will automatically purge the earliest binlogs if the disk space usage reaches the system threshold, regardless of the retention period setting.

4. After applying the changes (and restarting if needed), connect to the instance and run the `SHOW VARIABLES` statement in this section to verify the configuration.

For detailed instructions, see [Set instance parameters](https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/rds/apsaradb-rds-for-mysql/modify-the-parameters-of-an-apsaradb-rds-for-mysql-instance) 
</details>

### Ensure network connectivity

Before creating a migration job, you need to plan and set up proper network connectivity between your source MySQL instance, the TiDB Cloud Data Migration (DM) service, and your target {{{ .essential }}} cluster.

The available connection methods are as follows:

| Connection method | Availability | Recommended for |
|:---------------------|:-------------|:----------------|
| Public endpoints or IP addresses | All cloud providers supported by TiDB Cloud | Quick proof-of-concept migrations, testing, or when private connectivity is unavailable |

> | Private links or private endpoints | AWS and Azure only | Production workloads without exposing data to the public internet |

Author: 这是 dedicated 的

For detailed instructions about incremental data migration, see [Migrate Only Incremental Data from MySQL-Compatible Databases to {{{ .essential }}} Using Data Migration](/tidb-cloud/migrate-incremental-data-from-mysql-using-data-migration-essential.md).

## Step 4: Choose the objects to be migrated

1. On the **Choose Objects to Migrate** page, select the objects to be migrated. You can click **All** to select all objects, or click **Customize** and then click the checkbox next to the object name to select the object.

    - If you click **All**, the migration job will migrate the existing data from the whole source database instance to TiDB Cloud and migrate ongoing changes after the full migration. Note that it happens only if you have selected the **Existing data migration** and **Incremental data migration** checkboxes in the previous step.
    - If you click **Customize** and select some databases, the migration job will migrate the existing data and migrate ongoing changes of the selected databases to TiDB Cloud. Note that it happens only if you have selected the **Existing data migration** and **Incremental data migration** checkboxes in the previous step.

>     - If you click **Customize** and select some tables under a dataset name, the migration job will only migrate the existing data and migrate ongoing changes of the selected tables. Tables created afterwards in the same database will not be migrated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - If you click **Customize** and select some tables under a database name, the migration job will only migrate the existing data and migrate ongoing changes of the selected tables. Tables created afterwards in the same database will not be migrated.
```
